OSDOCS-7800: Migrated a topic about Azure OIDC from MOBB docs to ROSA docs (#64888)
openshift/openshift-docs: rosa_tutorials/rosa-mobb-azure-oidc.adoc

== Prerequisites

Create a set of security groups and assign users by following link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-groups-create-azure-portal[the Microsoft documentation].

In addition, if you are using `zsh` as your shell (which is the default shell on macOS) you may need to run `set -k` to get the below commands to run without errors. This is because `zsh` disables comments in link:https://zsh.sourceforge.io/Doc/Release/Options.html[interactive shells from being used].

[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-register"]
== Register a new application in Azure AD for authentication

. Capture the OAuth callback URL
+
First, construct the cluster's OAuth callback URL and make note of it. To do so, run the following command, making sure to replace the variable specified:
+
The "AAD" directory at the end of the OAuth callback URL should match the OAuth identity provider name you'll setup later.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ domain=$(rosa describe cluster -c <cluster_name> | grep "DNS" | grep -oE '\S+.openshiftapps.com')
echo "OAuth callback URL: https://oauth-openshift.apps.$domain/oauth2callback/AAD"
----

> . Register a new application in Azure AD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Register a new application in Azure AD.
```

+

> Second, you need to create the Azure AD application itself. To do so, login to the Azure portal, and navigate to link:https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[App registrations blade], then click on "New registration" to create a new application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, you need to create the Azure AD application itself. To do so, login to the Azure portal, and navigate to link:https://portal.azure.com/#blade/Microsoft_AAD_RegisteredApps/ApplicationsListBlade[App registrations blade], then click *New registration* to create a new application.
```

+
image::azure-portal_app-registrations-blade.png[Azure Portal - App registrations blade]
+

> Provide a name for the application, for example `openshift-auth`. Select "Web" from the Redirect URI dropdown and fill in the Redirect URI using the value of the OAuth callback URL you retrieved in the previous step. Once you fill in the necessary information, click "Register" to create the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide a name for the application, for example `openshift-auth`. Select *Web* from the *Redirect URI* drop-down and fill in the Redirect URI using the value of the OAuth callback URL you retrieved in the previous step. Once you fill in the necessary information, click *Register* to create the application.
```

+
image::azure-portal_register-an-application-page.png[Azure Portal - Register an application page]
+

> Then, click on the "Certificates & secrets" sub-blade and select "New client secret". Fill in the details request and make note of the generated client secret value, as you'll use it in a later step. You *will not* be able to retrieve it again.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, click the *Certificates & secrets* sub-blade and select *New client secret*. Fill in the details request and make note of the generated client secret value, as you'll use it in a later step. You _will not_ be able to retrieve it again.
```

+
image::azure-portal_certificates-secrets-page.png[Azure Portal - Certificates & secrets page]
image::azure-portal_add-a-client-secret-page.png[Azure Portal - Add a Client Secret page]
image::azure-portal_copy-client-secret-page.png[Azure Portal - Copy Client Secret page]
+

> Then, click on the "Overview" sub-blade and make note of the "Application (client) ID" and "Directory (tenant) ID". You'll need those values in a later step as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, click the *Overview* sub-blade and make note of the *Application (client) ID* and *Directory (tenant) ID*. You will need those values in a later step as well.
```

[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-optional-claims"]
== Configure optional claims

> In order to provide OpenShift with enough information about the user to create their account, we will configure Azure AD to provide two optional claims, specifically "email" and "preferred_username" when a user logs in. For more information on optional claims in Azure AD, see link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to provide OpenShift with enough information about the user to create their account, we will configure Azure AD to provide two optional claims, specifically `email` and `preferred_username` when a user logs in. For more information on optional claims in Azure AD, see link:https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/active-directory-optional-claims[the Microsoft documentation].
```

> Click on the "Token configuration" sub-blade and select the "Add optional claim" button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the *Token configuration* sub-blade and select the *Add optional claim* button.
```

image::azure-portal_optional-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims Page]

> Select ID then check the "email" and "preferred_username" claims and click the "Add" button to configure them for your Azure AD application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select ID then check the `email` and `preferred_username` claims and click the *Add* button to configure them for your Azure AD application.
```

image::azure-portal_add-optional-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Token Type]
image::azure-portal_add-optional-email-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - email]
image::azure-portal_add-optional-preferred_username-claims-page.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - preferred_username]

When prompted, follow the prompt to enable the necessary Microsoft Graph permissions.

image::azure-portal_add-optional-claims-graph-permissions-prompt.png[Azure Portal - Add Optional Claims - Graph Permissions Prompt]

[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-configure-cluster"]
== Configure the OpenShift cluster to use Azure AD as the identity provider

> Finally, we need to configure OpenShift to use Azure AD as its identity provider. While Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) offers the ability to configure identity providers via the OpenShift Cluster Manager (OCM), that functionality does not currently support group claims. Instead, we'll configure the cluster's OAuth provider to use Azure AD as its identity provider via the `rosa` CLI. To do so, run the following command, making sure to replace the variable specified:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, we need to configure OpenShift to use Azure AD as its identity provider. While Red Hat OpenShift Service on AWS (ROSA) offers the ability to configure identity providers via the OpenShift Cluster Manager (OCM), that functionality does not currently support group claims. Instead, we will configure the cluster's OAuth provider to use Azure AD as its identity provider via the `rosa` CLI. To do so, run the following command, making sure to replace the variable specified:
```

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create idp \
    --cluster ${CLUSTER_NAME} \ <1>
    --type openid \
    --name ${IDP_NAME} \ <2> 
    --client-id ${APP_ID} \ <3>
    --client-secret ${CLIENT_SECRET} \ <4>
    --issuer-url https://login.microsoftonline.com/${TENANT_ID}/v2.0 \ <5>
    --email-claims email \
    --name-claims name \
    --username-claims preferred_username \
    --extra-scopes email,profile
----
--
<1> Provide the name of your ROSA cluster with the `export CLUSTER_NAME=example-cluster` command in your terminal.
<2> Provide the name you used in the OAuth callback URL with the `export IDP_NAME=AAD` command in your terminal.
<3> Provide the Application (client) ID with the `export APP_ID=yyyyyyyy-yyyy-yyyy-yyyy-yyyyyyyyyyyy` command in your terminal.
<4> Provide the client secret with the `export CLIENT_SECRET=xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx` command in your terminal.
<5> Provide the Directory (tenant) ID with the `export TENANT_ID=zzzzzzzz-zzzz-zzzz-zzzz-zzzzzzzzzzzz` command in your terminal.
--

[id="rosa-mobb-azure-oidc-grant-permissions"]
== Grant additional permissions to individual users

> Once the cluster authentication Operator reconciles your changes (generally within a few minutes), you will be able to login to the cluster using Azure AD.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the cluster authentication Operator reconciles your changes (generally within a few minutes), you will be able to log in to the cluster using Azure AD.
```

> Once you login, you will notice that you have very limited permissions. This is because, by default, OpenShift only grants you the ability to create new projects (namespaces) in the cluster. Other projects (namespaces) are restricted from view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you log in, you will notice that you have very limited permissions. This is because, by default, OpenShift only grants you the ability to create new projects (namespaces) in the cluster. Other projects (namespaces) are restricted from view.
```
